# Test for Analytics

Design tests for Analytics functionality on a Battery Monitoring System.

Fill the parts marked '_ enter' in the **Tasks** section below.

## Analysis-functionality to be tested

This section lists the Analysis for which _tests_ must be written.

Battery Telemetrics are collected and stored on a server.
Data for a month is stored in a [csv file](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated_values).

Analysis must be done on this csv file to find the following:
- minimum
- maximum
- count of breaches (how many times did it cross the threshold in a month?)
- record trends (date & time when the reading was continuously increasing for 30 minutes)

A PDF report of the analysis must be stored every week.
Notification must be sent when a new report is available.

## Tasks

### List Dependencies

List the dependencies of the Analysis-functionality.

1. Access to the Server containing the telemetrics in a csv file
2. .CSV file to .pdf convertion of the analyzed data
3. Email alert or text alert(error notification alone) or other notification based on users choice

(add more if needed)

### Mark the System Boundary

What is included in the software unit-test? What is not? Fill this table.

| Item                      | Included?     | Reasoning / Assumption
|---------------------------|---------------|---
Battery Data-accuracy       | No            | We do not test the accuracy of data
Computation of maximum      | Yes           | This is part of the software being developed
Off-the-shelf PDF converter | Yes           | Done using external s/w, so only test to check change the file size/file name in the respective directory
Counting the breaches       | Yes           | Choose the conter variable with appropriate Data Type, to avoid problems if the count exceeds data type limit.
                                              This is part of the software being developed
Detecting trends            | Yes           | This is part of the software being developed
Notification utility        | No            | No test required since we don't check the return acknowledgement of the alert sent

### List the Test Cases

Write tests in the form of `<expected output or action>` from `<input>` / when `<event>`

Add to these tests:

1. Write minimum and maximum to the PDF from a csv containing positive and negative readings
2. Write "Invalid input" to the PDF when the csv doesn't contain expected data
3. Verify if error is notified by system when unable to fetch data from csv file for further checks incase of server connection error
4. Verify if the number of counts is updated when the minimum BMS threshold value is breached
5. Verify if the number of counts is updated when the maximum BMS threshold value is breached
6. When PDF generation fails, ensure an alert or notification is sent
7. Verify if error is notified by system when no pdf can be fetched from incase of server connection error
8. Check if trends were recorded when increase in reading for next 30 mins
9. Verify if .pdf is generated by checking the respective directory or memory location for its name or by file size
10. Check and send error if no means of interface for alert or notification is configured
11. Check if alerts are sent periodically regardless of fluctuaions detected, to confirm battery status is doing fine
12. Check if alerts are sent during min or max threshold breach in BMS

(add more)

### Recognize Fakes and Reality

Consider the tests for each functionality below.
In those tests, identify inputs and outputs.
Enter one part that's real and another part that's faked/mocked.

| Functionality            | Input        | Output                      | Faked/mocked part
|--------------------------|--------------|-----------------------------|---
Read input from server     | csv file     | internal data-structure     | Fake the server store
Validate input             | csv data     | valid / invalid             | None - it's a pure function
Notify report availability | pdf file     | email notification          | function for alert notification
Report inaccessible server | csv/pdf file | notification alert email    | error alert function and Fake the server store
Find minimum and maximum   | csv file     | valid/invalid values        | None - it's a pure function update in pdf
Detect trend               | csv file     | pdf file                    | None - it's a pure function, to update trend in pdf
Write to PDF               | internal data-structure| pdf file          | Fake Pdf convertor
